Okay, so now that we know about
pointers and references, let's
talk about when we want to
use pointers versus reference
as function parameters.
First, let's look at pass-by-value.
Remember that pass-by-value
is what c++ does by default.
So you want to use pass-by-value
parameters when the function
does not modify the actual
parameter and the parameters
are small and efficient to copy.
This is true of the primitive
types like integers, doubles,
characters Booleans and others.
Note that the collection types,
like strings and vectors and others,
have a certain amount of overhead
involved when they're copied.
So you want to think twice
before you pass those by value.
In the case of pass-by-reference
with a regular pointer, in this
case, we do want to modify the actual
parameter from within the function and
the parameter is expensive to copy.
And then the last criteria is
that it's okay for the pointer
to contain a null value.
This is important because a
lot of data structures rely on
pointers becoming null at the
end of lists or the end of trees.
So in those cases, you really want
to pass pointers and not references
because references can't be null.
Let's take a look at pass-by-reference
using a pointer to const.
In this case, this is suitable when
the function does not modify the
actual parameter, but the actual
parameter is expensive to copy.
Also remember that pointers can
contain null values, and this is
very useful in data structures.
In this case, the pointer is
allowed to contain a null value.
In the case of pass-by-reference
using a const pointer to const, in
this case, it's very useful when
the function does not modify the
actual parameter and the parameter is
expensive to copy, it's okay to have
a null pointer and also the function
never modifies the pointer itself.
So this is a good example of where
you would pass something in, and
you're guaranteed that the pointer
is not moving and the data it's
pointing to is not going to change.
Okay, so now let's look at references.
In the case of pass-by-reference
using a regular reference parameter,
this is used when the function does
modify the actual parameter and
the parameter is expensive to copy.
Of course, you can never have
no values in the reference.
So if you're working with data
structures that rely on null
values, you really should be
using pointers and not references.
And in the case of pass-by-reference
using a constant reference, this
is useful when the function doesn't
modify the actual parameter, but
the parameter is expensive to copy.
And again, you can't
have null references.
So if you need null values,
go with the pointers.
Okay, there you go.
Those are a few guidelines.
These are just guidelines that can
be used to make your program better
and easier to modify and debug.
That's the end of this section.
This section can be difficult
for many beginning programmers,
but it's important that you go
through the example slowly and
then make up your own examples.
Pointers and references are
two concepts that make c++
very different from other
languages like java, python,
ruby JavaScript and so many more.
Remember, at the beginning, I talked
about c++ programmers being in control
of memory and hardware, now you know
how it works and have the foundation
to move to oo programming in c++.
That's coming up in the next section.
But first, have a go at the
section challenge, which
will give you a little bit
more practice with pointers.